h1. Atrium

Atrium is a Ruby-on-Rails 3 gem containing the core code for a web application to build collection based of blacklight which build faceted search and discovery layer on top of solr

h2. Before You Begin

*!!! This is a WORK IN PROGRESS !!!*

h2. Installation/Setup

h3. Installation Prerequisites


Ruby 1.8.7 is required by Atrium release 4.0; RVM is strongly suggested.

h3. Install Rails

Currently Atrium is compatible with Rails 3.2

<pre>
gem install 'rails' --version '~>3.2.2'
</pre>

h3. Generate a new rails application:

<pre>
rails new my_atrium_app
cd my_atrium_app
</pre>

h3. Install Dependencies

First, add them to the "Gemfile":http://gembundler.com/gemfile.html of your application.  You may already have a Gemfile in the new rails application you just generated; in that case, be sure to add blacklight devise and the development/test group per below:

<pre>
  source 'http://rubygems.org'

  gem 'rails', '~> 3.2'
  gem 'blacklight', '~> 3.3'
  gem 'atrium', :path => '../../'

  gem 'cancan'
  gem 'jquery-rails'
  gem 'json'

  group :assets do
    gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 3.2.1'
    gem 'sass-rails',  '~> 3.2.3'
    gem 'therubyracer', :platforms => :ruby
    gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.0.3'
  end

  # For testing
  group :development, :test do
    gem 'bcrypt-ruby'
    gem 'capybara'
    gem 'cucumber-rails'
    gem 'database_cleaner'
    gem 'factory_girl',  '~> 1.1'
    gem 'mocha'
    gem 'rspec'
    gem 'rspec-rails', '>=2.5.0'
    gem 'ruby-debug'
    gem 'sqlite3'
  end
  gem "devise"
  gem "compass-rails", "~> 1.0.0", :group => :assets
  gem "compass-susy-plugin", "~> 0.9.0", :group => :assets

</pre>

To install all of the dependencies, run:

<pre>
bundle install
</pre>

On some systems, you will have to install system libraries that various gems rely on.  For example, in order to install the curl gem on ubuntu you have to first install libcurl4-openssl-dev and then re-run bundler.

h3. Run the generators and migrations:

Run the Atrium generator

<pre>rails g atrium -df</pre>

Run the database migrations

<pre>
rake db:migrate
rake db:test:prepare
</pre>

h3. You're done.

Congratulations.  You've set up the code to create atrium application.

h2. Modifying and Testing the Atrium Gem


h2. Acknowledgements

h3. Design & Strategic Contributions